# Week 2

*Listen to the audio version of this announcement on [Soundcloud](https://soundcloud.com/adavis46/week-2-information-design).*

Welcome to Week 2. We'll be hitting the ground running with the first major project this week. You will also continue to develop your digital media blog and get feedback from a real audience.

Based on the blog focus descriptions you submitted last week, I've divided the class into five reading groups. No two members of a reading group should have the same topic. That way you won't step on each other's toes and you'll always be reading something new when you comment on your peers' posts each week. Most of the groups have 3, but one has 4 (and another may have a 4th added). I have already created subscriber groups in Edblogs, so you should see the other members of your reading group in your "My Sites" dashboard and in the WordPress Reader. You should read and respond to the posts from other members of your reading group each week. These responses should be thoughtful and substantive (so not "that was really interesting"). No set length requirement, but you know what an engaging comment looks like. 

Hopefully you've been thinking about what you want to do for the first project. If you haven't already, I recommend reading the full [project guidelines](https://olemiss-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/addavis_olemiss_edu/EWvMkn1sqPlHsH0npWfUhX8BdiT38Mxb7XPov9RZcbUz1g?e=dNfx2V). As its title suggests, this project is all about information design. In other writing classes, you've no doubt had to write research papers. In some, you've probably had to write several different types of essays. Do you consider this kind of writing "designing?" Probably not; you're given guidelines and parameters to follow: someone else did the designing for you (in those cases, your teacher). This project asks you to go through the information design process from start to finish, conceiving of an original message, a real audience, and even a method of delivery. The final product will be an infographic or a web text with basic interaction (like a [Sway](https://sway.office.com/my)). You aren't designing a website; you'll do that in the second project, and your main purpose for this project is to transmit information, rather than interacting with the audience. 

Your primary task this week is to write a proposal memo for the project. Your job is to propose some kind of information product based on the topic or focus of your blog. The proposal memo will outline the background, message, and audience for the information product. The audience part is especially important; one of the main points of this entire project is to design for a specific audience. In the proposal, you'll also include some preliminary evidence, a timeline, and the platform you'll use to create your design. Lastly, you'll choose a license for the project. The entire memo should be at least 500 words. Also, let me reiterate that this should be a memo. Use memo format. There are several links in this week's folder about memo format if you've never written one before. Last week you learned that "medium is message;" document format is very important, especially in this class.

As you can see from the titles of most of the readings this week, you'll be learning a lot about audience analysis and the theoretical foundation of information design. These readings are essential for the second step in the project which is coming up fast (due next Wednesday). The Audience Analysis and Impact Report is where you'll dig deeply into the audience you wrote about in the proposal. You'll do research into demographics, cultural background, shared values, expectations, skills, and so on. Because this report is due half-way through next week, you should start on it now. Use the proposal as an outline for generating the foundation of the audience analysis report. 

I realize this is a lot of information. Please get started as soon as you can, and do pay attention to the readings. They provide some much needed context for this project, but because we don't have a textbook, I can understand if it's hard to see a coherent way that the readings fit together. I need your feedback so that I can provide additional support if it's necessary; if you're confused, don't hold back.

Lastly, I'll be responding to everyone's first blog post by the end of the day today. Don't forget to read and comment on the posts from your reading group! Have a great week, everyone.

Andrew
