# Welcome to WRIT 350

*Listen to the audio version of this announcement on [Soundcloud](https://soundcloud.com/adavis46/writ-350-course-introduction).*

Welcome to WRIT 350 online. This course is designed to provide real-world experience with digital composition in a virtual environment. Since WRIT 350 is a part of the Minor in Professional writing, you can expect to write a lot. You will also be challenged to learn and use tools and processes that are a part of the digital composition landscape. This course is rigorous and fast-paced. It has recently been redesigned to add more intensive readings and more complex project deliverables. However, by the end of the semester, you will have developed marketable experience that you can use to distinguish yourself on the job market. 

Please spend some time today familiarizing yourself with the course space on Blackboard. WRIT 350 is organized by week. Each week has a focus related to the current major project. Within each weekly folder, you will find an outline of tasks, readings, and media for the week. Weekly folders open on Saturdays, though we follow a standard workweek calendar, so technically weeks begin on Mondays. Since there is no textbook for this course, it's important that you pay attention to the "To Read" section of the week's outline to know which parts of the linked readings you're responsible for. Since we don't meet face to face, it's essential that you complete the course readings each week. I am not interested in boring you with lecture videos, so the readings are the primary way you'll learn what you need to know. 

Like WRIT 250, this course is framed around your interests. You will maintain a digital media blog for the duration of the semester devoted to a single issue, topic, or focus related to digital media. Once you set up your blog, your first task this week will be to decide on a focus. I have provided several ideas in the setup instructions on the blog template, but there are myriad directions you could go with your blog. If you're having trouble coming up with a focus, contact me and I will help you brainstorm. I'm always available online and I'm on campus M-F 8 to 5. Once you decide on a blog focus, you will submit a description of it along with a link to your blog to the Google Form link in this week's folder. I will choose the reading groups once I read everyone's chosen focus. 

The three major projects for WRIT 350 are based on the focus you choose for your digital media blog. The first project, Information Design, tasks you with developing an information campaign for a specific audience related to your blog focus. All of the research and writing you do for your weekly blog posts will contribute to the larger projects. The blog is meant to help you develop the raw material and evidence for use in constructing the conrete deliverables for the major projects. 

Your grade for WRIT 350 is based on your digital media blog, the Information Design project, the Web Development project, the Writing for Wikipedia project, and your final presentation. Each project is broken up into several deliverables, and any work you complete for the course will feed into the blog grade or the project grades. 

Assigned work, including weekly blog posts, is usually due on Fridays by midnight. Occasionally, work will be due on Wednesdays as well. All deadlines are clearly indicated in each weekly folder. If you're going to miss a deadline, please contact me. I'm always willing to work something out, but I can't do anything if you go MIA. As long as you keep the lines of communication open, I'll do everything I can to help you succeed in the course. 

I'll send an announcement on Mondays to review your tasks for the week. Typically these announcements will be text-only, but if there's a lot of information, I'll provide an audio version. I will also go over the readings and main concepts to focus on for the week. 

All of my communication information is in "About this Course" and on the syllabus. Email me any time; during the workday, I'll usually respond immediately. It may take a little longer late at night or on the weekends, but if you haven't heard back from me within 12 hours, feel free to email again. You can also IM me on Google Talk/Hangouts (on the left sidebar of your Ole Miss Gmail). My Google address is [addavis@go.olemiss.edu](mailto:addavis@go.olemiss.edu). Sometimes a quick chat is the fastest way to resolve an issue, and I much prefer it to long email chains. If you prefer to video chat, we'll use Google Hangouts Meet (or the platform of your choice). Lastly, I'm always happy to meet face-to-face. My office is on the 3rd floor of Lamar Hall in Suite B. I'm here M-F 8 to 5. Feel free to stop by any time, but I'd recommend emailing or IMing me to check my availability before you make a special trip. That way, I can put you on my calendar. 

That's probably enough information for now. I'll send a second announcement specifically for Week 1's tasks shortly. Don't hesitate to contact me if you have any questions or concerns about the course. I'm here to help!

Andrew